= Court Booking

A System which will allow Squash clubs to manage their bookings.

== Versions

Ruby - see .ruby-version
Rails - see .ruby-gemset

== Dependencies

* SQLite
* Postgres (unless removed from the gemfile and database.yml)
* Redis


== Authentication

Uses Devise with some additional configuration:
* username is the primary login.
* emails are not unique - some users including families may use the same email address.

== Setup

Example configuration files are as follows:
* config/database.yml.example
* config/mailer.yml.example

When the application is first started all initial settings will be loaded. The initializer files will detect whether any settings exist.

=== user management

A single user will be created:

* username: adminuser
* password: password

Admin users can only be added via the rails console using Admin.create(...). This should be limited to one user.

On initial start go to admin/users. Select adminuser. Change the username, full name and email.

=== Mail

The system will need a working mail server.

In developmentI have used my own providers SMTP server and staging and production I have used Exim4.
The following options are a minimum requirement for SMTP to work:
* address
* username
* password
* from email address
* SMTP domain

The SMTMP domain is required for the default url options and the asset host in any emails that are sent out. See mailer for more details.

=== Settings

The following system wide settings are available (with default values):

*Number of days that courts can be booked in advance - 21
*Number of courts that can be booked during peak hours in a week - 3
*Number of courts that can be booked during peak hours in a day - 1
*Courts opening time - 06:20
*Courts closing time - 22:20
*Slot time - 40 minutes

When the application is first loaded in any environment the default settings will be loaded into the settings table.
If you want to change these settings before first load use the settings.rb file in config.
If you want to change these settings after first load use admin/settings.
When the system is restarted the settings are loaded from the database table.
When the settings are changed from the admin system a restart is required. This is fired automatically in the controller.

=== Permitted attributes


== Functionality

=== Sign in

=== Bookings

=== Admin

==== Settings

==== Members

==== Courts

==== Events

==== Reports

Not yet enabled.

==== Emails

Not yet enabled.




